---
layout: default
title: Guide to Subtlety Rogue
permalink: /guide/subtlety/index.html
---

# Guide to Subtlety Rogue

Welcome to the guide for Subtlety Rogue in 7.2.5. If you're looking for a good
introduction to playing Subtlety in Legion, you've come to the right place.

I'll make a note of any changes to the guide and the date it was updated here if
you want to come back in the future to check for changes.

**Last updated: Saturday, 16th June 2017 - Updated talents, and abbreviations**

Please note things are subject to change in the early days of patch 7.2.5 when
things are discovered and hot fixes happen.

<div id="toc"></div>

## Credits

- Riff
- Aethys
- Fuu
- Jaeed

## Introduction

Subtlety got a pretty big overhaul for Legion. The biggest change being Shadow
Dance. Previously a 1 minute cool down that lasted for 8 seconds. Now a 1 minute
cool down that lasts for 4 seconds, with 2 charges. The new Deepening Shadows
passive reducing the remaining cool down of Shadow Dance by 1 seconds per combo
point spent.

We also got back Shadowblades as our major cool down ability. We also got a
short cool down in the form of Symbols of Death, this gives 40 energy and
increases damage by 15% for 10 seconds, on a 30 second cool down.

## Abbreviations

These are some of the common abbreviations you might see people use when talking
about Subtlety Rogue.

### Abilities

| Abbreviation | Full Name             |
| ------------ | --------------------- |
| BS           | Backstab              |
| CloS         | Cloak of Shadows      |
| CS           | Cheap Shot            |
| CV           | Crimson Vial          |
| GB           | Goremaw's Bite        |
| KS           | Kidney Shot           |
| NB           | Nightblade            |
| SS           | Shadowstrike          |
| ShB          | Shadow Blades         |
| ShD          | Shadow Dance          |
| ShS          | Shadowstep            |
| SoC          | Shroud of Concealment |
| SoD          | Symbols of Death      |
| Storm        | Shuriken Storm        |
| TotT         | Tricks of the Trade   |

### Talents

| Abbreviation | Full Name          |
| ------------ | ------------------ |
| MoS          | Master of Subtlety |
| WM           | Weaponmaster       |
| NS           | Nightstalker       |
| Subt         | Subterfuge         |
| SF           | Shadow Focus       |
| DS           | Deeper Stratagem   |
| CD           | Cheat Death        |
| DSh          | Dark Shadow        |
| ES           | Enveloping Shadows |
| MoSh         | Master of Shadows  |
| MfD          | Marked for Death   |
| DfA          | Death from Above   |

### Passives

| Abbreviation | Full Name         |
| ------------ | ----------------- |
| ShT          | Shadow Techniques |
| Combo        | Shuriken Combo    |

## Talents

Subtlety talents are mostly cookie cutter except for the level 15 talents, and
the survivability talents at level 60.

These talents are subject to change due to discoveries and hot fixes. This is
only a simple outline for now.

### Tier 19 (4 Piece)

- Level 15: Master of Subtlety
- Level 30: Nightstalker
- Level 45: Deeper Stratagem
- Level 60: Elusiveness or Cheat Death
- Level 75: Prey on the Weak
- Level 90: Dark Shadow
- Level 100: Death from Above

### Tier 19 (2 Piece) + Tier 20 (2 Piece)

- Coming soon

### Tier 19 (2 Piece) + Tier 20 (4 Piece)

- Coming soon


You should always run a simulation of your character to check which talents are
best for you. **Once the Subtlety APL has been optimised**.

## Artifact

Our artifact are the Fangs of the Devourer. Pretty much the teeth of Sargeras'
puppy dog, Goremaw the Devourer.

### Traits

At this point in the expansion, a lot of characters will be at 40 artifact
knowledge or at least close to it. So filling out traits is fairly quick, and
you'll have all the golden traits easily.

If you do require the routes you should take, you can follow these routes in
order.

- Gutripper
- Catlike Reflexes
- Ghost Armor
- Energetic Stabbing
- Finality
- Flickering Shadows
- The Quiet Knife
- Akaari's Soul
- Demon's Kiss
- Precision Strike
- Soul Shadows
- Shadow Nova
- Fortune's Bite
- Second Shuriken
- Embrace the Darkness

Then you want to get Legionblade, and once you've empowered your artifact you
can unlock the new traits.

- Shadows of the Uncrowned
- Weak Point
- Shadow's Whisper
- Feeding Frenzy

Once you've got the 4th gold trait you can fill out 4/4 in the other powerful
traits.

- Soul Shadows (If you have Denial of the Half Giants)
- Gutripper
- Energetic Stabbing
- Demon's Kiss
- Precision Strike
- Soul Shadows (If you don't have Denial of the Half Giants)
- The Quiet Knife
- Fortune's Bite

Then 4/4 in the less useful traits.

- Catlike Reflexes
- Ghost Armor

Then finally.

- Concordance of the Legionfall

### Relics

- Soul Shadows (If you have Denial of the Half Giants)
- Gutripper
- Energetic Stabbing
- Weak Point
- Precision Strike
- The Quiet Knife
- Soul Shadows (If you don't have Denial of the Half Giants)
- Demon's Kiss
- Fortune's Bite

You should always run a simulation of your character to check if a higher item
level relic might be better than your current relic. These aren't one-size fits
all results.

## Gearing &amp; Stats

Gearing in Legion has become a lot more complicated in the sense that warforged,
titanforged, and sockets make picking your best items more difficult, even if
they're a lower item level.

When in doubt, you should run simulations of your character to compare the item
or multiple items.

You may also be familiar with the term **stat weights**, this term is complete
bullshit. For a start it's **scale factors**, and secondly your scale factors
will become out of date whenever you equip a new item. It's always better to run
a simulation of your character to compare items to see if it's an upgrade. This
excludes trinkets as some times they're not modelled correctly in simulations.

For stats you should be aiming for the following:

- Agility
- Mastery
- Versatility
- Critical Strike
- Haste

**When in doubt, run a simulation for your character and the item(s) in
question.**

For your food buff while raiding you should use the primary stat Feast. If
you're unable to use a Feast, the food for the secondary stat that you're scale
factors says is highest.

For potions you should be using Potion of Prolonged Power.

For your flask you should always use Flask of the Seventh Demon.

#### Legendaries

- Denial of the Half-Giants
- Mantle of the Master Assassin
- Insignia of Ravenholdt
- Shadow Satyr's Walk
- Cinidaria, the Symbiote
- The Dreadlord's Deceit

**New Legendaries**: TODO

- The First of the Dead
- Soul of the Shadowblade

## Rotation

This is for when you have Tier 19 4 set bonus, this will be updated once more
people start getting Tier 20 items.

The priorities and rotation are subject to change due to discoveries and
hot fixes. This is only a simple outline for now.

### Pre-Pull

- Potion of Prolonged Power
- Shadow Blades

### Pull

- Shadowstrike
- Backstab
- Nightblade
- Shadow Dance
- Shadowstrike
- Symbols of Death
- Shadowstrike
- Eviscerate
- Shadowstrike
- Backstab
- Vanish
- Death from Above, use Shadow Dance before the Eviscerate part hits

### Cool Downs

- Symbols of Death, line up with Death from Above
- Goremaw's Bite, if you're not in Stealth or Shadow Dance, you have 3 or less
  combo points, and have less than 50 energy
- Shadowblades, use on cool down
- Death from Above, line up with Symbols of Death and a Shadow Dance

### At 5+ Combo Points

- Nightblade, refresh with 5.4 (9 with tier 19 2 set bonus) seconds remaining at
  6 combo points, or 4.7 (7.8 with tier 19 2 set bonus) seconds remaining at 5
  combo points<sup>1</sup>
- Eviscerate

1: You do not want to overwrite a Finality empowered Nightblade until it has
expired. The time remaining for refreshing is also increased with Tier 19 2 set
bonus.

### Builders Outside Shadow Dance

- Backstab
- Shuriken Storm, if there are 2 or more targets

### Builders During Shadow Dance

- Shadowstrike
- Shuriken Storm, if there are 3 or more targets

### Stealth and Shadow Dance Priorities

If you have 60 or more energy, follow these priorities for using Vanish and
Shadow Dance

- Vanish, if you don't have Master Assassin's Initiative buff up, and ...
- Shadow Dance, if you're close to capping on charges, or you're landing a Death
  from Above

**Note**: It might be best to save 2 charges for use with Symbols of Death, this
is still TODO.

### Cleave (2 Targets)

- TODO: this will be updated once more information is known

### Area of Effect (3+ Targets)

- TODO: this will be updated once more information is known

## AddOns &amp; Macros

There aren't any hard requirements for AddOns you should use. You should look
into using Weak Auras and/or an energy bar AddOn. I do not share the AddOns that
I specifically wrote myself for Subtlety Rogue as I get inundated with people
asking to add their feature, or fix a bugs that don't affect me.

### Weak Auras

You can find a number of Weak Auras available on [wago.io](https://wago.io).
Below are links to the Weak Auras I use.

Shadow Dance charges are a separate Weak Aura to show them as a larger icon.

- Cool Downs [https://wago.io/4ycVDEaP-](https://wago.io/4ycVDEaP-)
- Shadow Dance [https://wago.io/V1QewusUG](https://wago.io/V1QewusUG)

Buffs/Debuffs includes pandemic highlighting for Nightblade and Symbols of
Death. Nightblade (DB) tracks which have been empowered by Finality, and can be
used to show that on Nightblade auras.

- Buffs/Debuffs [https://wago.io/VynJONTvZ](https://wago.io/VynJONTvZ)
- Nightblade (DB) [https://wago.io/V1v7_zrzQ](https://wago.io/V1v7_zrzQ)

Finality includes the percentage empowerment.

- Finality [https://wago.io/V1E9wy1bG](https://wago.io/V1E9wy1bG)

### Macros

There are a number of macros to help with Shadow Dance and abilities used with
it.

Shadow Dance &rarr; Shadowstrike

    #showtooltip
    /cast Shadow Dance
    /cast Shadowstrike

Shadow Dance &rarr; Shuriken Storm

    #showtooltip
    /cast Shadow Dance
    /cast Shuriken Storm

You can also create copies that use `/cast Vanish` instead of Shadow Dance.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### How Does Finality Work?

Finality is pretty simple to understand once it's been explained.

When you use Eviscerate or Nightblade, if you do not have a Finality buff for
that finisher you will gain a Finality buff that will increase the damage of
the same finisher next time to use it.

The damage percentage of the buff depends on how many combo points were spent on
the finisher. It is 4% increased damage per combo point. So for a 5 combo point
finisher you would generate a 20% increased damage Finality buff, or if you're
talented into Deeper Stratagem and finish with 6 combo points you would generate
a 24% increased damage buff.

### How Does Weaponmaster Work?

When checking logs, you'll see damage called **Weaponmaster**, this damage is
the extra Nightblade ticks. Damage from non-Nightblade procs of Weaponmaster are
added to the total for that ability. You can see this if you check the casts
count vs the hits count.

## Summary

This guide is written to help those who want to start playing Subtlety Rogue or
get better at it. If you feel some part of the guide can be improved send an
email to [riffeu@gmail.com](mailto:riffeu@gmail.com) and explain what you feel
can be improved, and why.

<span style="display:none">Gloom&shy;blade</span>
