---
layout: default
title: Guide to Outlaw Rogue
permalink: /guide/outlaw/index.html
---

# Guide to Outlaw Rogue

Welcome to the guide for Outlaw Rogue in 7.2.5. If you're looking for a good
introduction to playing Outlaw in Legion, you've come to the right place.

I'll make a note of any changes to the guide and the date it was updated here if
you want to come back in the future to check for changes.

**Last updated: Friday 16th June 2017 - Now with less dice**

Please note things are subject to change in the early days of patch 7.2.5 when
things are discovered and hot fixes happen.

<div id="toc"></div>

## Credits

- wEak
- Alaizabel
- Lorentz

## Introduction

Outlaw got a pretty big overhaul for Legion. The biggest change being the theme
of the spec. It was renamed from Combat to Outlaw and now packs proper slashing
and firing your pistol. Outlaw is the Rogue's go to spec when it comes to proper
close up cleaving. It does have its moments with single target but it really
shines when you have a lot of enemies surrounding you. When it comes to numbers
Outlaw has been on the back foot outside lucky rolls in raiding or running 5
mans.

## Talents

Outlaw talents got a bit more freedom of choise with 7.2.5 and the revaluation
of the dice. There are also signs of Slice and Dice making some improvements
due to bug fixes in 7.2.5 Simulationcraft.

- Level 15: Ghostly Strike or Quick Draw
- Level 30: Optional or Hit and Run<sup>1</sup>
- Level 45: Deeper Stratagem or Vigor
- Level 60: Optional
- Level 75: Optional
- Level 90: Alacrity
- Level 100: Marked for Death or Death from Above<sup>2</sup>

1: Hit and Run becomes the best talent in this row if you have Thraxi's Tricky
Treads, due to movement speed becoming a damage increase.
2: This choise is heavily dependant on gear and/or encounter. If you find Death
from Above tiny bit ahead of Marked for Death in ST it is adviced to use the latter
since it doesn't frequently put you in danger due to loss of control over character

## Artifact

Our artifact are The Dreadblades. These are the famous cursed sabres of the
fierce Outlaw that dared with the twisting nether.

### Traits

At this point in the expansion, a lot of characters will be at 40 artifact
knowledge or at least close to it. So filling out traits is fairly quick, and
you'll have all the golden traits easily.

If you do require the routes you should take, you can follow these routes in
order.

- Fate's Thirst
- Fatebringer
- Ghostly Shell
- Greed
- Hidden Blade
- Gunslinger
- Deception
- Fortune's Boon
- Fortune's Strike
- Blunderbuss
- Blademaster
- Black Powder
- Blurred Time
- Fortune Strikes
- Blade Dancer

Then you want to get Cursed Steel, and once you've empowered your artifact you
can unlock the new traits.

- Bravado of the Uncrowned
- Sabermetrics
- Dreadblade's Vigor
- Loaded Dice

Once you've got the 4th gold trait you can fill out 4/4 in the other powerful
traits.

- Fate's Thirst
- Fortune's Boon
- Fatebringer
- Black Powder (If you have Greenskin's Waterlogged Wristcuffs)
- Gunslinger (If you have Greenskin's Waterlogged Wristcuffs)
- Fortune Strikes
- Fortune's Strike
- Blade Dancer

Then 4/4 in the less useful traits

- Ghostly Shell

### Relics

- Fate's Thirst
- Fortune's Boon
- Fatebringer
- Sabermetrics
- Black Powder (If you have Greenskin's Waterlogged Wristcuffs)
- Gunslinger (If you have Greenskin's Waterlogged Wristcuffs)
- Fortune Strikes
- Fortune's Strike
- Gunslinger
- Black Powder

You should always run a simulation of your character to check if a higher item
level relic might be better than your current relic. These aren't one-size fits
all results.

## Gearing &amp; Stats

Gearing in Legion has become a lot more complicated in the sense that warforged,
titanforged, and sockets make picking your best items more difficult, even if
they're a lower item level.

When in doubt, you should run simulations of your character to compare the item
or multiple items.

You may also be familiar with the term **stat weights**, this term is complete
bullshit. For a start it's **scale factors**, and secondly your scale factors
will become out of date whenever you equip a new item. It's always better to run
a simulation of your character to compare items to see if it's an upgrade. This
excludes trinkets as some times they're not modelled correctly in simulations.

For stats you should be aiming for the following:

- Agility
- Versatility
- Haste
- Critical Strike
- Mastery

**When in doubt, run a simulation for your character and the item(s) in
question.**

For your food buff while raiding you should use the primary stat Feast. If
you're unable to use a Feast, the food for the secondary stat that you're scale
factors says is highest.

For potions you should use Potion of the Prolonged Power in all situations.

For your flask you should always use Flask of the Seventh Demon.

#### Legendaries

- Mantle of the Master Assassin
- Greenskin's Waterlogged Wristcuffs
- Insignia of Ravenholdt
- The Curse of Restlessness
- Soul of the Shadowblade
- Thraxi's Tricksy Treads
- Cinidaria, the Symbiote
- Shivarran Symmetry

## Rotation

### Pre-Pull

- 18 seconds on the pull timer, Marked for Death
- 1 second on the pull timer, use Roll the Bones, and your Potion

### Pull

- Curse of the Dreadblades
- Ambush
- Adrenaline Rush
- Re-roll if needed
- Saberslash or Pistol Shot if consuming Greenskins Buff
- Between the eyes or Run Through
- Repeat

### Priorities

- Roll the Bones, currently optimal reroll logic would suggest only rerolling 2+
buffs when Loaded Dice is active<sup>3</sup>

3: More details about this can be found in the
[FAQ](#frequently-asked-questions).

#### At 4-5 Combo Points or 5-6 Combo Points with Deeper Stratagem

- Roll the Bones if needed
- Between the Eyes, if you have 100% Critical Strike or need to proc Greenskin's
Waterlogged Wristcuffs.<sup>4</sup>
- Run Through

4: More details about this can be found in the
[FAQ](#frequently-asked-questions).

### Cool Downs

#### Curse of the Dreadblades

- Use on cool down
- You have less than 2 combo points and plenty energy

#### Adrenaline Rush

- Use on cool down

#### Vanish

- Use on cool down
- You can Ambush right away

#### Marked for Death

- Use on cool down unless you can quickly reset it via a dying mob.

### Cleave

- Toggle Blade Flurry on, and continue normal rotation.

## AddOns &amp; Macros

There isn't really any hard requirements for AddOns you should use. You should
look into using Weak Auras and/or an energy bar AddOn.

### Weak Auras

You can find a number of Weak Auras available on [wago.io](https://wago.io).
Below are links to a set of Rogue Weak Auras.

- Cool Downs [https://wago.io/4ycVDEaP-](https://wago.io/4ycVDEaP-)

A really handy weak aura for tracking Blunderbuss proc

- Blunderbuss/Debuffs [https://wago.io/VJhMnPWWG](https://wago.io/VJhMnPWWG)

### Macros

There are not any required Outlaw macros. A generally accepted beneficial one
is the mouseover Marked for Death macro. It's useful if a ranged target is about
to die, and you want the Combo points and the reset.

Mouse over Marked for Death:

    #showtooltip
    /cast [@mouseover] Marked for Death

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Greenskin's Waterlogged Wristcuffs

When you acquire Greenskin's, you want to use Between the Eyes, whenever you
do not currently have the buff from Greenskin's up or when you have 100%
critical strike due to Mantle of the Master Assassin.

### Thraxi's Tricksy Treads

When you acquire Traxi's Tricky Treads, you want to use Sprint as an offensive
cool down, if the encounter allows for it, For example you don't need to use
your Sprint for utility purposes, until it is off cool down again.

### Rolling Dice in 7.2.5

The benefits from rerolling over and over again were greatly diminished in 7.2.5.
This means we no longer have to endlessly cast Roll the Bones until we get True
Bearing. This means you should only cast Roll the Bones when you don't have any
dice or you have the articaft trait Loaded Dice active.

### Pistol Shot

Using Pistol Shot at the right times, can prove to be quite difficult,
especially if you are in the so-called Adrenaline Rush feedback Loop, because it
will result in energy-capping. If you estimate that a free use of Pistol Shot
will cause you to cap energy at any one point (unless you have a Blunderbuss
proc empowered with Greenskin's) you should instead use Saberslash.

## Summary

This guide is written to help those who want to start playing Outlaw Rogue or
get better at it. If you feel some part of the guide can be improved send an
email to [riffeu@gmail.com](mailto:riffeu@gmail.com) and explain what you feel
can be improved, and why.
