---
layout: default
title: Guide to Outlaw Rogue
permalink: /guide/outlaw/index.html
---

# Guide to Outlaw Rogue

Welcome to the guide for Outlaw Rogue in 8.0.1. If you're looking for a good
introduction to playing Outlaw in BFA, you've come to the right place.

I'll make a note of any changes to the guide and the date it was updated here if
you want to come back in the future to check for changes.

**Last updated: Saturday 21st of july 2018, BFA upgrades**

Please note things are subject to change in the early days of patch 8.0.1 when
things are discovered and hot fixes happen.

<div id="toc"></div>

## Credits

- wEak
- Alaizabel
- Lorentz
- Loktark

## Introduction

Outlaw got a pretty big overhaul for Legion. The biggest change being the theme
of the spec. It was renamed from Combat to Outlaw and now packs proper slashing
and firing your pistol. Outlaw is the Rogue's go to spec when it comes to proper
close up cleaving. It does have its moments with single target but it really
shines when you have a lot of enemies surrounding you. When it comes to numbers
Outlaw has been on the back foot outside lucky rolls in raiding or running 5
mans.

## Talents

Outlaw are much closer to eachother with 8.0.1 and the rework to our talent tree. These may be the best talents, but picking the "wrong" one is not as much of a damage loss as it has been in the past. This also means minor changes through tier or azerite can push a talent to being better than its counterparts.

- Level 15: Quick Draw
- Level 30: Optional
- Level 45: Marked for death or Vigor<sup>1</sup>
- Level 60: Optional
- Level 75: Optional
- Level 90: Alacrity
- Level 100: Blade Rush

1: The choice here depends on what content you are doing as well as your characters gear. In heavy reset situations Marked for death will tend to be better. On pure singletarget vigor will generally win out, but if your haste is excessively high it is possible for Marked for Death to be the choice on singletarget.



### Azerite

All Outlaw Azerite traits in no particular order. Proper order list pending.

- Deadshot, BTE increases the damage of your next pistol shot.
- Ace Up Your Sleeve, Between the eyes deals addition damage and a has chance to refund 4 combo points.
- Storm of Steel, When sinister strike strikes an additional time your next dispatch will deal additional damage.
- Snake Eyes Roll, roll the bones increases the damage of your next 5 Sinister strikes.
- Paradise lost, When roll the bones only grants 1 buff gain agility for the duration of the roll.
- Brigand's Blitz, Adrenaline rush increases your haste every second stacking up to 10 times for the duration of adrenaline rush.
- Footpad, Allies within 8 yards gain Speed rating while your sprint is active.
- Shrouded mantle, Cloak of shadows heals you every second, plus an additional amount for each effect dispelled or negated.


You should always run a simulation of your character to check if a higher item
level Azerite piece or one with better traits might be better than your current Piece.

## Gearing &amp; Stats

Due to forced personal loot gearing in BFA will be simpler in a certain sense. Generally you will not need to compete with your fellow raiders for most gear drops even in organized raiding. Occasionally you may need to compete with other players for an item that is tradable, but this cannot happen with Azerite pieces which are one of the most potent upgrades available.

When in doubt, you should run simulations of your character to compare the item
or multiple items.

You may also be familiar with the term **stat weights**, this term is complete
bullshit. For a start it's **scale factors**, and secondly your scale factors
will become out of date whenever you equip a new item. It's always better to run
a simulation of your character to compare items to see if it's an upgrade. This
excludes trinkets as some times they're not modelled correctly in simulations.

For stats you should be aiming for the following:

- Agility
- Haste
- Versatility
- Critical Strike
- Mastery

**When in doubt, run a simulation for your character and the item(s) in
question.**

For your food buff while raiding you should use the primary stat Feast. If
you're unable to use a Feast, the food for the secondary stat that you're scale
factors says is highest.

For potions you should use Potion of the Prolonged Power in all situations.

For your flask you should always use Flask of the Seventh Demon.


## Rotation

### Pre-Pull

- 18 seconds on the pull timer, Marked for Death(If talented)
- 2 seconds on the pull timer, use Roll the bones If you casted marked for death
- 1 second on the pull timer, use Adrenaline rush, your Potion, and stealth

### Pull

- Ambush
- Sinister Strike
- Blade Rush


### Priorities

- Roll the Bones, currently optimal reroll logic is to reroll until you get 2+, or Ruhless Pecision, or Grand Melee

3: More details about this can be found in the
[FAQ](#frequently-asked-questions).

#### finishers at 5 combo points(4 with either an opportunity proc or broadside buff, 3 with both)

- Roll the Bones if needed
- Between the Eyes, if you have Ruthless Precision up
- Run Through

4: More details about this can be found in the
[FAQ](#frequently-asked-questions).

### CoolDowns


#### Killing Spree
- use on cooldown
- When energy is low


#### Adrenaline Rush

- Use on cooldown
- When you won't cap energy within the next global cooldown

#### Blade Rush
- Use on cooldown
- When you won't cap energy within the next global cooldown

#### Vanish

- Use on cooldown
- You can Ambush right away

#### Marked for Death

- Use on cooldown.
- When low on combo points.
- Be sure to use on an add that will die soon if available.

### Cleave

- Active Blade flurry, Continue as normal.
- Be sure to save a charge of blade flurry for Killing spree/Blade Rush if talented.

## AddOns &amp; Macros

There isn't really any hard requirements for AddOns you should use. You should
look into using Weak Auras and/or an energy bar AddOn.

### Weak Auras

You can find a number of Weak Auras available on [wago.io](https://wago.io).
Below are links to a set of Rogue Weak Auras.

- Cool Downs [https://wago.io/4ycVDEaP-](https://wago.io/4ycVDEaP-)

A really handy weak aura for tracking Blunderbuss proc

- Blunderbuss/Debuffs [https://wago.io/VJhMnPWWG](https://wago.io/VJhMnPWWG)

### Macros

There are not any required Outlaw macros. A generally accepted beneficial one
is the mouseover Marked for Death macro. It's useful if a ranged target is about
to die, and you want the Combo points and the reset.

Mouse over Marked for Death:

    #showtooltip
    /cast [@mouseover] Marked for Death

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Rolling Dice in 7.2.5

The benefits of rerolling do not change no matter how bad your luck has been so far.
This means there is no point where rerolling becomes not worth it. Always reroll until you get the buffs required.

### Pistol Shot

We no longer need to cast pistol shot at the right times since it now costs energy and does a fair amount of damage. Simply cast it whenever you have an opportunity proc regardless of the state of your energy.

## Summary

This guide is written to help those who want to start playing Outlaw Rogue or
get better at it. If you feel some part of the guide can be improved send an
email to [riffeu@gmail.com](mailto:riffeu@gmail.com) and explain what you feel
can be improved, and why.
